Enterprise multi-cluster scalability (#3027)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/running-at-scale.adoc

By design, {prod} is not multi-cluster aware, and you can only have one instance per cluster.
However,
you can run {prod} in a multi-cluster environment by deploying {prod} in each different cluster

> and using routing mechanisms to direct users to the appropriate instance.

Reviewer: Do you think we be more specific, like we were earlier?

Author: well, specific example is the Developer Sandbox one which is below. How we can make all the sections below part of the overall .Multi-cluster section?

Author: ```suggestion
and using a load balancer or DNS-based routing to direct traffic to the appropriate instance based on the user’s location or other criteria.

This approach can help
improve performance and reliability by distributing the workload across multiple clusters
and providing redundancy in case of cluster failures.

> .Developer Sandbox Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Developer sandbox example
```

> .Developer sandbox example

Author: ```suggestion
.Developer Sandbox example
```

and configured using link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/[Argo CD].
Since the user base is spread across multiple clusters,
link:https://workspaces.openshift.com/[workspaces.openshift.com] is used as a single entry point to the productized {prod} instances.

image::running-at-scale/snip_{project-context}-multi-cluster.png[Scheme of a multi-cluster environment]

You can find implementation details about the multicluster redirector in the following link:https://github.com/codeready-toolchain/crw-multicluster-redirector[GitHub repository].

[IMPORTANT]
====
The multi-cluster architecture of link:https://workspaces.openshift.com/[workspaces.openshift.com] is part of the link:https://developers.redhat.com/developer-sandbox[Developer Sandbox].
It is a Developer Sandbox-specific solution that cannot be reused as-is in other environments. However, you can use it as a reference for implementing a similar solution well-tailored to your specific multicluster needs.
====

> .The Multicluster Redirector Solution for OpenShift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The multicluster redirector solution for Red Hat OpenShift
```

> Red Hat offers an open-source Quarkus-based service called the that acts as a single gateway for developers, automatically redirecting them to the correct {prod} instance on the correct cluster based on their OpenShift group membership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red Hat offers an open-source, Quarkus-based service that acts as a single gateway for developers. This service automatically redirects users to the correct {prod} instance on the appropriate cluster based on their Red Hat OpenShift group membership. The community-supported version is available in the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/devspaces-multicluster-redirector[GitHub repository].
```

> The community-supported version is currently available in the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/devspaces-multicluster-redirector[GitHub repository].

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> .Architecture and Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Architecture and requirements
```

> A critical requirement for the multicluster redirector is that all users must be provisioned to the host cluster where the redirector deploys. Users authenticate through this cluster's OAuth flow, even if they never run workloads there. The host cluster's OpenShift groups determine the routing logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A critical requirement for the multicluster redirector is that all users must be provisioned to the host cluster where the redirector is deployed. Users authenticate through the OAuth flow of this cluster, even if they never run workloads there. The host cluster's Red Hat OpenShift groups determine the routing logic. See the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/devspaces-multicluster-redirector?tab=readme-ov-file#-deploying-to-openshift[Deploying to Red Hat OpenShift] section for deployment instructions.
```

> The deployment instructions can be found in the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/devspaces-multicluster-redirector?tab=readme-ov-file#-deploying-to-openshift[Deploying to OpenShift] documentation section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.Configuration

> The routing configuration uses a `ConfigMap` containing JSON that maps OpenShift groups to {prod} URLs. The redirector watches this file and updates routing tables in real-time without requiring restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The routing configuration uses a `ConfigMap` that contains JSON to map Red Hat OpenShift groups to {prod} URLs. The redirector uses this file to update routing tables in real-time without requiring restarts.
```

> .Operational Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Operational flow
```

The routing process follows these steps:

> . OAuth authentication via proxy sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Authenticate via OAuth by using a proxy sidecar.
```

> . Identity and group information passed through HTTP headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Pass identity and group information through HTTP headers.
```

> . OpenShift API queries verify group memberships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify group memberships by using Red Hat OpenShift API queries.
```

> . Mapping lookup determines the appropriate {prod} URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Determine the appropriate {prod} URL by using a mapping lookup.
```

> . User redirects to their designated cluster instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Redirect the user to the designated cluster instance.
```

> When users belong to multiple OpenShift groups, the system displays a selection dashboard allowing developers to choose their desired {prod} instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users belong to multiple Red Hat OpenShift groups, they can choose their desired {prod} instance from a selection dashboard.
```

.Additional resources

> * link:https://che.eclipseprojects.io/2025/04/29/@ilya.buziuk-running-at-scale.html[Running at Scale]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://che.eclipseprojects.io/2025/04/29/@ilya.buziuk-running-at-scale.html[Running at scale]
```
